In this lecture I will show you how
to create your own helm charts.
You can create helm charts to deploy your own applications.
It's the recommended way to deploy
your application on Kubernetes.
Packaging the app using helm, allows you to deploy the app
in one command, instead of using kubectl create or apply.
Helm allows for upgrades and rollbacks.
Your helm chart is also version controlled.
To create the files necessary for a new chart, you can enter
the commands helm create and then the name of your chart.
Here for example, mychart, and this will create a directory
called mychart, and in this directory
it will create the files that you need.
It will create a chart.yaml, values.yaml,
and a folder templates.
In chart.yaml, you'll find some metadata
like the apiVersion, the appVersion, the description,
the name of your chart, and the version of your chart.
This is just some basic information that you can fill out.
The values.yaml contains the values that you want to use
in your chart using yaml format.
I will show you the default one, in the next demo.
The default one is already quite long, and it contains
things like the image name, the image tag, that you define
in the values.yaml and can then use in the templates.
So then let's have a look at the templates folder.
In the templates folder, you will find things
like deployment.yaml, service.yaml,
and those are files that you are familiar with.
These are the Kubernetes yaml files,
but you can use variables in them.
You can use a templating mechanism to create dynamic
yaml files, and helm will interpret these, and when you
do helm install, it will install these yaml files.
In the next demo I will show you a little bit more detail,
and then I will also show you
an example chart that I've created.